Why are you interested in Lincoln School for your child and what benefits do you hope to gain from this educational experience?
About 5 years ago, we submitted Lincoln applications for both Ella and her older sister, Adelaide. Unfortunately, our girls could not matriculate at that time, but we see a renewed possibility for Ella as our circumstances are a bit different now logistically. We would like you to know that Ella has been THE driver of applying to Lincoln again. She yearns for a big change in her educational experience. She has shown ownership, initiative, and passion in pursuing Lincoln, which was impossible for us to ignore. Unfortunately, public school hasn't been a great fit for Ella and most days she feels worried about the chaos and discord she faces in the classroom. We have often been told that Ella is a model of good behavior and so she is typically seated next to children with outbursts, which further unnerves her. She is a very sensitive person, and teachers yelling at disruptive children, even if not directed at Ella, rattles her deeply and she can feel personally threatened when adult voices are loud or overly stern. This has stymied her self-confidence. Ella is a clever problem solver. If there is something she wants to achieve, she is determined and will find a way. An example of this is how in fourth grade she figured out that by creating a Word document and sharing it over Teams with her sister at the high school, that they could then talk together during the school day. She is full of self initiative, and expresses her desire to be an engineer and is always coming up with business ideas that she'd like to pursue. She is inquisitive and thinks deeply into matters. One recent evening when I was reading a book to her, two characters who spoke different languages were try to communicate. Suddenly, Ella turned to me with this look of wonder on her face, saying, "Wait, what language do babies think in if they can't talk?" I was so impressed that this fictional situation had prompted that insight from her. I point out these traits of Ella's because we don't believe her current school allows those traits to flourish. She is often lost in the mix. She often feels unempowered and disrespected because she is 'only a child.' She is often overwhelmed by the size and chaotic setting, and she frequently complains of being bored. It seems that a lot of time is spent on controlling behavior of the class as a whole, along with a good portion of uninspiring tasks. We believe that the environment of The Lincoln School, a calm, respectful setting with a hands on interactive approach that rewards a child's natural inquisitiveness, would be a tremendous enhancement to Ella's ability to thrive and her sense of confidence. Ella knows what it feels like to learn in a safe space. Ella had a wonderful early education at a Reggio Emelia-based school that had small class sizes and was a gift in every way. The three years at The Learning Circle were formative in developing Ella's gentle way, her respect for others, her inquisitiveness, and her creativity. Later on, in fourth grade at public school, Ella had a deeply meaningful and trusting relationship with her teacher and thrived. Additionally, for the past 3 summers, Ella has attended 2.5 weeks of overnight arts camp in Maine. She has returned proud, empowered, and simmering with stories and excitement. These are examples of what we hope to replicate at Lincoln - the small class size, the trust, the creativity, and the respect for place and for people. Ella has so much to gain from a school like Lincoln, but she also has so much to add to the community with her love for science and art projects, passion for greek mythology, knack for lending "tech support," and being a genuine and kind person. Ella has a great sense of humor and has a deep sense of empathy to those around her. She thoroughly enjoyed her visit to Lincoln and strongly desires to attend next year as a seventh-grade student! The Lincoln School seems like the perfect fit for our family. We as a family value social justice, learning through literature and innovation, and striving to be good friends and citizens. We are lifelong learners who are sensitive, but resilient. We seek authentic relationships and quiet moments of self-reflection. We believe Lincoln will provide the right balance of autonomy and structure so that our daughter feels safe and supported becoming stronger and more self-assured. We would be absolutely thrilled and delighted to be a part of the Lincoln community!
